---
title: 2024.08.05 | ADK 0.20.7 - macOS and Linux Installer
slug: release-2024-08-05
authors: [johannesdienst]
tags: [AskUI SDK]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Introduction
This release delivers some improvements to the AskUI initial setup and the error reporting.

* Video recording is disabled by default now.
* We added a `.gitignore` file to the initial project. This prevents checking in unwanted files like reports or `.env`.
* If an instruction fails the error log contains the code including the line number, so you can find the failing AskUI Instruction fast.

We also release the macOS and Linux Installer which brings the *AskUI Suite* to macOS and Linux. It includes the *ADE* and the new implementation of the *AskUI Controller*. The *ADE* makes managing all the AskUI components and AskUI projects way easier and streamlined. While the new *AskUI Controller* improves the execution speed and operating system compatibility. A better developer experience and faster execution for you!

---

## New Features

### Video Recording Is Disabled by Default
Video recording is disabled by default in `helpers/askui-helper.ts`. Enable it by uncommenting the commented-out lines.

```typescript title="Relevant lines in helpers/askui-helper.ts"
...
beforeEach(async () => {
  /* Uncomment to enable video recording
  await aui.startVideoRecording();
  */
});

afterEach(async () => {
  /* Uncomment to enable video recording
  await aui.stopVideoRecording();
  const video = await aui.readVideoRecording();
  await AskUIAllureStepReporter.attachVideo(video);
  */
});
...
```

## `.gitignore` for Reports-Directories and Configuration Files
When you create a new project a sensible `.gitignore` file will be added. So you do not check in the following files accidentally:

```bash
allure-results/
report/
xray-report/

.env
.vscode

# Dangerous (may contain secrets)
.npmrc

# Dependencies
/node_modules

# Caches
.npm
.eslintcache

# Misc
.DS_Store

# Logs
npm-debug.log*
yarn-debug.log*
yarn-error.log*
```

## Helpful Error Message When AskUI Instruction Fails
The error messages Jest displayed when an AskUI Workflow/Instruction failed made it hard to find the offending line of code. Especially on larger workflows, it was a challenge. Now the error message contains the exact line and also the code that failed:

![The image is a screenshot of a Jest test failure log from a test file named my-first-askui-test-suite.test.ts. The log shows an error message indicating a ControlCommandError due to the inability to find a button containing the text "aloha blub". The error occurred in an asynchronous test function intended to "produce an error log". The relevant code snippet highlights the problematic line with await aui.click().button().withText('aloha blub').exec();. The stack trace provides details of where the error occurred within the test file. There is also a reference to documentation for troubleshooting this issue.](./jest-stacktrace.png)

---

## AskUI Installer Update 24.6.2

This ships the *AskUI Controller* and the *AskUI Suite* for all major desktop operating systems.

Since the support for MacOS and Linux is new there might be undiscovered issues that will be tackled step by step.

### Supported Operating Systems

* Windows 11
  * Version: 22H2
  * Architecture(s): AMD64 and ARM64
* MacOS
  * Version: 14.x
  * Architecture(s): ARM64 (Apple Silicon)
* Linux
  * Version: Ubuntu 22.04.2
  * Architecture(s): AMD64

#### Windows Installation
[Download link](https://files.askui.com/releases/Installer/24.6.2/AskUI-Suite-24.6.2-System-Installer-Win-AMD64-Full.exe).

#### macOS Installation

```bash
# Download installer into /tmp folder
curl -o /tmp/AskUI-Suite-24.6.2-User-Installer-MacOS-ARM64-Full.run https://files.askui.com/releases/Installer/24.6.2/AskUI-Suite-24.6.2-User-Installer-MacOS-ARM64-Full.run

# Run the installer
bash /tmp/AskUI-Suite-24.6.2-User-Installer-MacOS-ARM64-Full.run
```

#### Linux Installation

```bash
# Download installer into /tmp folder
curl -o /tmp/AskUI-Suite-24.6.2-User-Installer-Linux-x64-Full.run https://files.askui.com/releases/Installer/24.6.2/AskUI-Suite-24.6.2-User-Installer-Linux-x64-Full.run

# Run the installer
bash /tmp/AskUI-Suite-24.6.2-User-Installer-Linux-x64-Full.run
```

---

## New Features
Support for macOS and Linux.

---

## Changes

- The status indicator of the *AskUI Controller* was changed to match the users expectation.
  - Stats that are rendered:
    - Workflow in Progress
      - Color: Dark blue (Logo color)
      - Description: A workflow is in progress but the *AskUI Controller* waits for the next action.
    - Execution
      - Color: Green
      - Description: Indicates that for instance a mouse move or typing is in progress.
    - Idle
      - Color: White
      - Description: *AskUI Controller* is running but no workflow is in progress.

---

## Fixes

- N&A

---
## Versions

### Components and Packages
- AskUI Controller
        - AskUI Remote Device Controller: v0.9.0.0
        - AskUI Legacy UI Controller: 0.14.3
        - AskUI Remote Device Snipping Tool: v0.1.1.0
- AskUI Runner: 0.1.4
- AskUI Development Environment (ADE): v0.9.0.0
- AskUI Development Kit (ADK): 0.20.7

### 3rd Party Versions
- Node.JS: 21.0.0
- PowerShell 7.3.12
